the only way to survive in a
free-falling elevator okay this is a fun
topic hey free falling in a trap small
metal box sounds terrifying duh even the
thought of such a grim situation gives
us chills and you probably wondered what
you would do if the elevator cable
suddenly snapped is it even possible to
survive such a fall any volunteers see
any hands well today we answer these
questions and share some recommendations
from scientists and engineers about what
you should and definitely shouldn't do
if you find yourself in a falling
elevator okay brace yourself number one
don't jump there's a widespread
misconception that if you jump a moment
before the elevator hits the bottom you
will somehow decrease the impact on your
body firstly how are you planning to
understand when you should jump you
can't see through metal kanya secondly
even if you somehow managed to jump
which is extremely difficult due to
being in a freefall the speed decrease
you can hope for is about two miles per
hour or three kilometers per hour it's
definitely not enough to save your life
what is worse you might hurt yourself
badly if you hit the ceiling with your
head jumping is not worth the risk at
all Mythbusters tested this approach
believe us it didn't end well for the
dummy inside the elevator
[Music]
the next thing not to do don't stand up
straight standing up straight and hoping
for the best is also not the best idea
nothing good is coming what is coming is
await 10 times larger than that of your
own body dropping on your legs at the
moment of impact now with all due
respect neither you nor anyone else can
survive that so now that we're clear of
what you should never do in a falling
elevator let's get to the best course of
action
number one lie flat on the floor your
best bet would be to lie flat on your
back
this position will help you distribute
the force of the impact across your
entire body yes your small thin bones
will probably snap anyway though it
mostly depends on how high up you were
when the cable snap but it might help
you avoid more serious damage or not
nobody is absolutely certain it's
probably pretty hard to think clearly in
such a situation but you should also
remember to cover your head with your
hands when the elevator lands it will
most likely be destroyed so protecting
your head from debris might save your
life or not
[Music]
the problem with lying flat is well your
brain like in a car accident a sudden
speed drop from say 60 miles per hour or
96 kilometers per hour to 0 and will
cause a severe brain concussion another
issue is that when falling you are
weightless so you'll have to hold
yourself in order not to start flying
yes there are many downsides to this
approach but even considering all of
them experts agree that it's the only
realistic way to save your life or not
[Music]
you ever hear of Betty Lou Oliver she
worked as an elevator operator for the
Empire State Building in New York City
she holds the world's record for
surviving the longest elevator fall in
history she traveled 79 floors in a
falling elevator and stayed alive what
saved her was a thousand feet of cable
that landed before the elevator did and
smoothed out the fall what's even more
shocking earlier that day a plane
crashed right into the floor Betty
worked on she survived that accident
although 14 of her colleagues didn't we
don't believe there are that many people
who are so lucky of course there are
rumors that Betty went right out and
bought a lottery ticket after that on
the bright side no pun intended
elevator accidents happen extremely
rarely more people die when they step in
empty shafts oops or get stuck in
between the elevator doors so watch your
step and don't hurry you can always
catch the next one
also some elevator shafts have special
buffers that in case of emergency are
supposed to make the landing smooth
actually the only surefire 100 percent
way to survive and a free-falling
elevator is take the stairs don't forget
to share with your friends to keep them
safe like this video to let us know that
you enjoyed it and click subscribe to
join us on the bright side of life
[Music]